-: Hello, everyone.
Today, instead of talking about hacking and breaking
into systems as we usually do,
we're gonna talk about security and specifically,
how to secure websites, web applications,
mobile applications, and so on.
Obviously, hacks and breaches have a huge negative impact
on companies from the loss of customer trust,
to financial losses, leaked user data, legal issues,
and the list goes on.
Now, if you go and do a quick Google search
on how to secure your website or application,
you're gonna get a lot of garbage.
I was actually so disappointed at the click-baitey articles
that actually did not explain
or give any useful information.
Most of them suggested that you use backups,
use strong passwords, and make sure you use HTTPS,
but backups don't secure your website.
They simply help you recover.
Also, you using HTTPS encrypts the communication,
but it doesn't really secure the website.
The only one useful tip was use strong passwords,
but most hackers are not gonna sit down
and try to guess the password like you see
in Hollywood movies.
They're gonna rely on vulnerabilities
and weaknesses within your application
and they will exploit them to gain access
to it regardless of what password you use,
even if you have a very, very complex password
even if you're using HTTPS,
and even if you have backups,
a lot of this is actually irrelevant.
Also, it doesn't really matter where you
have the application hosted,
whether you using AWS or any other cloud provider.
And it doesn't matter how you're deploying this application,
if you're using Kubernetes or if you're using Docker,
it doesn't really matter.
It's actually very, very simple.
If you have a vulnerable web application,
then hackers are going to use these vulnerabilities
or weaknesses to gain access to this application.
So anyway, enough ranting.
Let's talk about how
to actually secure websites and applications.
First of all, before we start talking about it,
it is very important to understand
that achieving 100% security is impossible.
All which we are trying to do is to improve the security
of our applications and make sure
that they are as secure as possible.
With that being said, the following four approaches
will help you improve the security of your applications,
regardless of what kind of applications they are,
and regardless where they're installed, like I said,
doesn't matter if you install them on Amazon
or anywhere else, on AWS or anything else,
and it doesn't matter how you're deploying it,
if you're using Docker and so on.
So the first thing that you should do
is make sure that you are writing secure code.
This way, your application is built from the ground up
to be secure and to not introduce any bugs
or vulnerabilities that can be exploited by hackers
to gain access.
Now, this would be great if you can do it,
but the problem is it's easier said than done
because the developers need to be educated and taught
the methods that hackers use
to exploit systems and gain access.
And even if you do that, a lot of the time,
developers rely on third party libraries.
And the whole application might be written by someone else.
Therefore, you simply cannot write secure code
because you're not actually the writer
or the developer of this application.
Which brings me to the second point.
Review the code.
This is actually really good,
even if you wrote the application yourself,
and even if you made sure that you write secure code,
it's a really good idea to get that code reviewed
by other developers or another team
just in case the developers that wrote the application
missed something or overlooked something,
then it'll be caught at the review stage.
Also, if you are using code written by other developers
or third party libraries, then again,
a code review will fix this problem
because you can review everything.
And again, this is really, really good
because you're actually reviewing every single line,
and making sure that nothing is vulnerable
or will allow hackers to exploit your application
and gain access.
The main disadvantage here
is that if you have a large code base,
this could be very time consuming,
and it could also be very expensive.
The third approach, which is very essential in my opinion,
is getting a pen test done.
In a pen test, you basically hire a team
of ethical hackers to try and hack your application.
These ethical hackers will approach your application
the same way that black hat hackers do.
They're gonna try to gather as much information as possible,
discover all the weaknesses and vulnerabilities,
and see if they can exploit them to gain access.
At the end when they're done,
they're gonna give you a detailed report of everything
they found so you can pass it to your developers
and patch any vulnerabilities they discover.
The main advantage of this method
is you could test attack surfaces
that you cannot test with other methods,
such as your servers that are running your web application,
and the weakest link, which is the employees.
So these hackers, the ethical hackers
can even use social engineering and chain it
with other simpler attacks or simpler vulnerabilities
that they might find on your system to see
if they can use them to gain access.
The disadvantages here is that it could
be a little bit expensive and it's not future proof.
What I mean is if you get your application tested today
by really good ethical hackers
and then make sure you patch every single vulnerability
they find, this only means that your web application
is secure today.
It doesn't guarantee that it'll remain secure
for the next month or next year
because every single change you make,
every feature you push, or every even display bug you fix
might introduce other bugs or security weaknesses
that can be then used to hack into your application.
Not only that, but again,
if you're updating third party software or plugins, again,
all of that could introduce vulnerabilities.
And a pen test will not be able to catch that
because you're only doing the pen test today,
and these future changes are not gonna be tested.
The fourth approach, which can actually address this issue
is having a bug bounty program.
A bug bounty program is basically an invitation
to all ethical hackers around the world
to test your application and submit their findings,
and you would only pay for valid bugs or valid reports.
The main advantages here,
as you have guessed probably by now,
is that you're getting your application tested
by a large number of hackers,
so the chances of them finding vulnerabilities is higher
and it's actually future proof
because as long as you have that bug bounty listing live,
these hackers will always continue to test your application.
And you motivate them with bounty,
so these could be anything from a T-shirt
to actually monetary awards to make sure
that they're actually gonna continue
testing your application.
So even if you're pushing new changes, new features,
or updating stuff, it doesn't really matter
because hackers will continue to test your application,
hoping to find bugs and get bounties for their findings.
That's why large companies like Facebook and Google use
these bug bounty programs,
even though they follow all of the other approaches,
like I said.
They still use this to make sure that their systems
are always as secure as possible
and as free of bugs as possible.
The disadvantages here is, first of all,
it's hard to guarantee that all attack surfaces are covered.
And second is a lot of companies don't have the reach
that Google and Facebook have,
so they can't really advertise their bug bounties
as well as the big companies do.
They can't get a lot of ethical hackers
to test their website.
It is challenging for them to make these bug bounty programs
and validate these submitted reports.
But this is addressed by the bug bounty platforms
that we have these days, such as bug-bounty.com,
and the other platforms.
Bug-Bounty is actually a sister company of zSecurity.
So my opinion might be a little bit biased,
but I'm pretty sure that our prices
are the most competitive, and we offer the same service.
So anyway, I'm including everything there.
You have the choice, you can check out whatever you want.
and I'm sorry if I actually confused you
with the four approaches that I just mentioned,
but in my opinion, ideally,
you would wanna follow all of these four approaches
if you can.
This could be pretty expensive.
That's why a lot of companies don't do that,
and they would compromise and only go with three and four.
So they'll only do a pen test and have a bug bounty program.
And then other companies sometimes compromise even more
and pick one of the two.
Either do a bug bounty program or do a pen test.
In my opinion, app pen test is not a replacement
for a bug bounty program and vice versa.
I would recommend you do the two of them
because like I said,
each one of them has its advantages and disadvantages.
But if you really can't do both,
then at least do one of them as the bare minimum.
As a website owner or an app owner,
you are responsible for the user data that the users
are trusting you with.
And therefore you need to do at least the bare minimum
on trying to make sure that their data is handled safely
and is secure.